docs/speaker-identification-api.md, before:

---
id: speaker-identification-api
title: Speaker Identification API
sidebar_label: Speaker Identification API
---

Speaker identification api tries to figure out "Who Speaks When" for already enrolled speakers.
Splits audio clip into segments corresponding to a unique speaker and returns start and end of the segment

> Enroll user using [Speaker Enrollment Api](./speaker-enrollment-api.html) before using identification api.

### POST Request

### Async

`POST https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/async/diarization/identify`

### Sync

`POST https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/sync/diarization/identify`

### Sample Code


<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Shell-->

```shell
curl -X POST \
"https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/async/diarization/identify?apikey=<API_KEY>&webhook=<WEBHOOK_URL>" -H 'content-type: application/json' -d @data.json

curl -X POST \
"https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/sync/diarization/identify?apikey=<API_KEY>" -H 'content-type: application/json' -d @data.json

# contents of data.json
{"content": "bytesEncodedAudioString", "sampleRate": 8000, "encoding": "FLAC", "languageCode": "en-US", speakerIds: ["user1"]}
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Output

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Sync-->
```json
{
    "segments":
        [{
            "speaker_id": "speaker1",
            "start": 0,
            "end": 1
        }]
}
```

<!--Async-->
```json
{
"request_id": "8bdd983a-c6bd-4159-982d-6a2471406d62",
"api": "requested_api_name"
}
```

<!--Webhook-->
```json
{
"request_id": "8bdd983a-c6bd-4159-982d-6a2471406d62",
"response": {
    "segments":
        [{
            "speaker_id": "speaker1",
            "start": 0,
            "end": 1
        }]
}
}
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Body Parameters

| Parameter    | Type         | Description                               | Notes                        |
| ------------ | ------------ | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| encoding     | String       | Encoding of audio file like MP3, WAV etc. |                              |
| sampleRate   | Number       | Sample rate of the audio file.            |                              |
| languageCode | String       | Language spoken in the audio file.        | [default to &#39;en-US&#39;] |
| speakerIds   | List[String] | List of enrolled speakers to identify     |                              |
| content      | String | base64 encoding of the audio file.                       | Semi-Optional                     |
| url          | String | Publicly facing url                                      | Semi-Optional                     |

> NOTE: Exactly one of url and content should be passed. In case both values are passed, error is thrown


### Query Parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                                            | Notes                                           |
| ---------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| apikey    | String | The apikey                                                             | Required for authentication inside all requests |
| webhook    | String | The webhook url at which the responses will be sent                    | Required for async requests                     |
| request_id | String | An optional unique id to link async response with the original request | Optional                                        |

### Output Parameters (Async)

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                     | Notes                                                              |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| request_id | String | The request id                  | This defaults to the originally sent id or is generated by the api |
| api        | String | The api method which was called |                                                                    |

### Output Parameters (Webhook)

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                 | Notes                                                              |
| ---------- | ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| request_id | String | The request id              | This defaults to the originally sent id or is generated by the api |
| segments   | List   | List of identified segments | The Speaker Identification Segment object is defined below         |

#### Speaker Identification Segment

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                           | Notes |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------- | ----- |
| speaker_id | String | speaker id of the identified speaker. |       |
| start      | Float  | Start of the audio segment.           |       |
| end        | Float  | end of the audio segment.             |       |

Commit message:

adding text for speaker enrollment and identification api

docs/speaker-identification-api.md, after:

---
id: speaker-identification-api
title: Text Independent Speaker Identification API
sidebar_label: TI Speaker Identification API
---

Text Independent Speaker identification api tries to figure out "Who Speaks When" for already enrolled speakers. Here, there are no restrictions on what the speaker says in the audio and therefore no specific passphrase is required during enrollment or identification.
Splits audio clip into segments corresponding to a unique speaker and then compares its features with the features of the specified speakers in the requests and finally returns start and end of the segment with the identified speaker. Returns UserNotIdentified if user is identified with a low score.

> Enroll user using [Speaker Enrollment Api](./speaker-enrollment-api.html) before using identification api.

### POST Request

### Async

`POST https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/async/diarization/identify`

### Sync

`POST https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/sync/diarization/identify`

### Sample Code


<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Shell-->

```shell
curl -X POST \
"https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/async/diarization/identify?apikey=<API_KEY>&webhook=<WEBHOOK_URL>" -H 'content-type: application/json' -d @data.json

curl -X POST \
"https://proxy.api.deepaffects.com/audio/generic/api/v2/sync/diarization/identify?apikey=<API_KEY>" -H 'content-type: application/json' -d @data.json

# contents of data.json
{"content": "bytesEncodedAudioString", "sampleRate": 8000, "encoding": "FLAC", "languageCode": "en-US", speakerIds: ["user1"]}
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Output

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Sync-->
```json
{
    "segments":
        [{
            "speaker_id": "speaker1",
            "start": 0,
            "end": 1
        }]
}
```

<!--Async-->
```json
{
"request_id": "8bdd983a-c6bd-4159-982d-6a2471406d62",
"api": "requested_api_name"
}
```

<!--Webhook-->
```json
{
"request_id": "8bdd983a-c6bd-4159-982d-6a2471406d62",
"response": {
    "segments":
        [{
            "speaker_id": "speaker1",
            "start": 0,
            "end": 1
        }]
}
}
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

### Body Parameters

| Parameter    | Type         | Description                               | Notes                        |
| ------------ | ------------ | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| encoding     | String       | Encoding of audio file like MP3, WAV etc. |                              |
| sampleRate   | Number       | Sample rate of the audio file.            |                              |
| languageCode | String       | Language spoken in the audio file.        | [default to &#39;en-US&#39;] |
| speakerIds   | List[String] | List of enrolled speakers to identify     |                              |
| content      | String | base64 encoding of the audio file.                       | Semi-Optional                     |
| url          | String | Publicly facing url                                      | Semi-Optional                     |

> NOTE: Exactly one of url and content should be passed. In case both values are passed, error is thrown


### Query Parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                                            | Notes                                           |
| ---------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| apikey    | String | The apikey                                                             | Required for authentication inside all requests |
| webhook    | String | The webhook url at which the responses will be sent                    | Required for async requests                     |
| request_id | String | An optional unique id to link async response with the original request | Optional                                        |

### Output Parameters (Async)

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                     | Notes                                                              |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| request_id | String | The request id                  | This defaults to the originally sent id or is generated by the api |
| api        | String | The api method which was called |                                                                    |

### Output Parameters (Webhook)

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                 | Notes                                                              |
| ---------- | ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| request_id | String | The request id              | This defaults to the originally sent id or is generated by the api |
| segments   | List   | List of identified segments | The Speaker Identification Segment object is defined below         |

#### Speaker Identification Segment

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                           | Notes |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------- | ----- |
| speaker_id | String | speaker id of the identified speaker. |       |
| start      | Float  | Start of the audio segment.           |       |
| end        | Float  | end of the audio segment.             |       |
